hey friends so today we're going to talk
about a very important technique in SQL
that you will be using in your SQL
projects we have the views now of course
I can show you in two minutes how to
create a view in SQL it's really
straightforward but in this video we're
going to do beyond that because I really
want you to understand why views are
very powerful in SQL and very effective
for your SQL projects so we going to
understand why views are such a big deal
so we're going to do a deep dive into
the concept and usage in order to
understand how to use views in real
world scenarios so we're going to kick
off with the first topic where we're
going to have a quick recap about the
database structure and the ddl language
so let's
go now if you is not like a query that
we can use in SQL it is an object that
we can find in the database so before we
jump immediately to the view I would
like to give you the big picture the
whole structure of the database so let's
go we have like hierarchy structure and
and the highest level of this hierarchy
is the SQL Server the SQL Server manages
multiple databases it's like the control
center that keep everything running and
accessible now inside the SQL Server we
have multiple databases so a database is
collection of formations that are stored
in structure way it's where all your
data is kept and organized in different
tables and objects and each database is
separated from others and it has its own
data now inside each database we can
find multiple schemas a schema is like a
logical way on how you group up related
objects like tables and Views together
within a database like for example if
you have a database called sales we can
group up different tables about the
orders underneath the schema orders and
maybe we have like multiple views and
tables about the customers where we can
put it in the schema customers so if you
find like multiple tables and Views that
are describing the same object the same
topic we put them all together
underneath one schema so again a
database could be like the sales
database and the HR database they are
completely different types of data and
underneath the sales we can have like
different sections we have the sections
about the orders and sections about the
customers and now moving on what we can
find inside the schema we can find
tables a table is where actually your
data is stored it contains multiple
columns and rows so it is where the data
physically lives and now inside the
schemas we have another type of object
we call it View and of course in this
section we are focusing in the views so
a view is like a virtual table that has
a structure and everything but inside it
we don't have any data so the view does
not store any data and in order to see
the data we have to execute the query
behind the view and only after that we
going to see some data but it is not
like the tables it doesn't store the
data permanently now inside the tables
we can Define multiple stuff like
columns and as well keys and the same
same thing for the views inside the
views we can Define multiple columns and
one last level for each column we have
like a name and a data type so as you
can see the databases are really
organized and we have like hierarchy
where the top node is the SQL server and
the lowest node is the columns and rows
so this is what we call the database
structure now in order for you to build
and manage this structure we have set of
commands we call it ddl the shortcut of
data definition language so the detail
is a set of commands that allow us to
Define and manage the structure of the
database so we have commands like create
where it help us to create databases
schemas tables views another command
called alter of course after you create
something you would like maybe later to
do changes and updates and of course we
have the drop in order to remove any
database object like dropping a schema
dropping a database tables views so as
you can see the DL commands can help us
to manage the database structure so from
this picture we have understood that we
can create views inside schemas in the
database so now if you check the client
at the object Explorer you can find the
exact hierarchy so it start with the SQL
Server this is our local server that run
at our machine and then we can find
inside it multiple databases and one of
them is our sales DB that you have
installed together with other database
like the adventure works so now if you
go to the sales DB over here you can go
and drill to the the next level and now
we can find here a lot of objects and
one of them that we know we have tables
and Views and now you might say okay but
between the database and tables we have
schemas so where are the schemas well
actually if you go inside the tables you
can find our tables customers employees
and so on but before it we have a name
called sales. customers and you can find
it everywhere sales. customers sales to
employees and so on the sales is the
schema that bring all those tables
together and underne one logical schema
so we have a database called sales DB we
have schema called sales and we have a
table called customers and now if you
would like to see all the schemas inside
this database what you can do you can go
to the Securities over here and then
here we have like a folder called
schemas if you go over there you will
find the list of all schemas that we
have in this database you might say but
we didn't create all those stuff we have
only the sales that we know well as you
create a database in SQL Server you will
get a lot of other
system default schemas that the server
going to create one of them is the
information schema where it holds a lot
of views about the catalog and the
metadata where you can find the list of
columns tables views and so on so here
we have only one schema that we have
created for the user it is the sales so
let's go back now if you go inside one
of those tables you will find here
multiple stuff like we have columns Keys
constraints and so on and if you go to
the columns you will end up at the
lowest level of the the hierarchy and
here we have the columns like the
customer ID and we have some extra
informations like the data type length
and so on so this is the structure and
the hierarchy of
databases now I would like you to
understand a fundamental concepts on the
database in order to understand the
views the three level architecture of
the database this architecture can
describe the different levels of data
abstractions in a database so let's see
what this means so the architecture is
divided into three levels the first
level is the physical level then we have
the logical level and the third one is
the view level now let's understand each
level what it means so now the physical
level it is the lowest level of the
database where the actual data is stored
in a physical storage and usually who
has access to this layer are the
database administrators because they are
the experts and they have to manage the
access and the security of this layer
because they are the expert does have to
manage a lot of stuff like optimizing
the performance making sure that
everything is secure and managing the
backup and recovery and to do all the
configurations and many other tasks so
at the physical layer we have to deal
with a lot of stuff like the data files
partitions logs cataloges blocks and
caches and many other stuff that each
database needs in order to store your
data so as you can see this layer is
very complicated and you need to be
really an expert of databases in order
to be able to manage all those stuff so
we call this layer a physical layer or
sometimes we call it an internal layer
so now let's move to the next level we
have the logical level so The Logical
layer it is less complicated than the
physical layer here at this level you
have to deal on how to organize your
data and normally we have here like an
application developer or we have like
data Engineers that access The Logical
level in order to define the structure
of your data so those developers going
to focus on how to structure your data
rather than how the data is exactly
storing the data physically at the
storage so they don't have to deal with
all those details they leave it for the
database administrator and they can
focus only on how to structure the data
that's why we need for this kind of role
an abstraction level for them which is
The Logical level so now what actually
the developers are doing at this level
well they are like creating tables and
defining the relationships between those
tables or they can go and Define views
they can create indexes on the tables in
order to optimize the performance of the
tables or maybe they are creating stored
procedures and functions and some other
codes in order to manage those tables so
as you can see they are building the
data model they are structuring your
data but they don't care at all where
are those data stored physically in the
database so as you can see here things
are less complicated than the physical
layer and it is perfect abstraction for
developers to build projects so we call
this The Logical layer or sometimes we
call it the conceptual layer okay so now
moving on to another level of
abstraction we have the view level so
the view level is the highest level of
abstraction in the database and it is
what the end users and applications can
access and can see so for example you
could have like one view for business
analysts so you prepare and customize a
views that are suitable only for the
business analyst and you might say you
know what let's prepare another set of
views that are suitable for data
visualizations and Reporting like you
can go and connect for example a powerbi
in order to create dashboards so they
are fully customized and prepared views
in order to be connected with the RBI
reports and you can keep doing that by
creating multiple set of views that are
suitable for specific purpose and use
case so as you can see at this level we
are exposing our data for multiple users
and multiple applications so now the
question is what do we have to deal at
the view level well you have there only
views that holds only the relevant
informations for the use case or users
so the users at this level have only
views they don't have to deal with the
tables indexes s procedures any files
logs partitions or anything this is the
highest level of abstraction because the
focus of this layer is is to make it
friendly for the end users and easy to
consume so we call this layer The View
layer or sometimes we call it an
external layer so this is the three
level architecture of the databases or
we call it the three abstraction levels
of the database so the physical layer
has the highest complexity the lowest
abstraction and the view layer has the
highest abstraction so this is one more
reason why the views are very important
Concept in SQL databases
okay so with that we have enough
fundamentals in order to start talking
about the views so the question is what
are views a view is a virtual table in
SQL that is based on the result of a
query without actually storing the data
in the database so in short this means
views are stored or persisted SQL query
in the database so let's understand what
this exactly means now so far what you
have learned we have like database table
all what you have done we create a
select query in order to retrieve the
data from this table so once we execute
our query we will get the result back
now if we are talking about views they
have as well like the structure of the
table but without any data inside it and
for each view there is like a query
attached to it so there is no data but
we have like a query in order to get
data we call the normal table as a
physical table and the view we call it a
virtual table so now how exactly we
going to get the data so now if you go
and write query by selecting data from
The View not from the table from The
View what can happen isql going to go
and Trigger the queue that is attached
to the view and this query is
responsible to query the physical table
and then the result going to fill the
structure of the view and we will get
back of course the results so we are
directly querying a view but actually we
are indirectly querying a physical table
so the view it's like between us and the
data so that means my real data is
stored inside the database tables and
the views are like an abstraction layer
between me and my real data and of
course the data will not be stored
inside the view each time I'm querying
the view what's going to happen the SQL
query behind the view going to be
executed again so it going to go and
retrieve the data and get it back to the
view and then I will see it in the
output so this is what we mean with SQL
View
so now let's have a quick comparison
between tables and Views tables stores
the actual data physically at a database
so the tables where the data is
persisted with in the other hand the
views they are virtual tables and they
do not store any data inside the
database but they present the data from
the underlying tables so that means
views don't persist any data physically
now the tables are hard to maintain and
as well hard to change so it needs a lot
of efforts in order to do any change
like adding columns and moving columns
always requires a lot of efforts for the
migration especially if you have large
tables but in the other hand the views
are way easier to maintain and very
flexible to change all what you have to
do is only to change the query of the
view so that means you can very quickly
change stuff in the views compared to
the tables but if you are talking about
performance tables are faster than views
for example if you go and do a simple
select on the table you will get the
data back as soon as the database fites
the data but if you are selecting
something from the view it is actually
two queries the query that comes from
the user and as well the second query is
the view query and the query of the view
could be very complicated in order to
extract the data from the underlying
table so selecting something from the
view is always slower than selecting
something from a table now if you have a
table you can read from a table and as
well you can write to a table but the
views are read only as the name says it
is only a view you cannot go and write
something to the database using the view
okay so those are the big differences
between views and
tables all right so with that we have a
clear understanding what are views but
now you might ask me why do we need
views that's why now what we're going to
do we're going to Deep dive into
multiple scenarios and use cases that
you might encounter in your SQL projects
so let's start with the first use case
the first use case and the core reason
why we use views in our data projects is
to store Central logic from a complex
query in the database so that everyone
can access it and with that we improve
reusability between multiple queries and
we reduce as well the complexity of the
overall projects so let's understand
what this means so now in our project we
have like two tables in the database
orders and customers and we have learned
previously that if we have like a
complex query we can go and use the CTE
so for example in our CTE we are joining
tables and doing some aggregations using
the sum and the city going to store the
data in an intermediate result and then
we have the main query for example we
are doing the step two where we are
ranking the data so the whole thing is
in one query and let's say that a
financial analyst was doing this type of
analysis now what could happen if that
you might have another user for example
a budget analyst where he is doing
exactly the same First Step so he has as
well a city query where first the data
are joined and then aggregated using the
sum but the last step in the main query
he's not doing ranking he's just doing
like Max and Min and not only that we
have a third user the risk analyst were
as well doing the same initial step
using the CTE joining the tables and
doing the summarization but here the
risk analyst in this scenario is just
comparing the data at the last step in
the main query so now if you sit back
and look at this you can see allthough
three data workers all of them are doing
the same First Step so all of them are
doing the same CTE they are joining the
data and then doing summarization and of
course this is a complete waste of time
that each one of them has to create
first to the CTE from the scratch in
order to do some analyzis so it is
complete redundancy and makes no sense
so this is exactly the disadvantage of
only using CTE is in the projects now
what we can do instead of that those
three data workers going to decide to
say you know what let's put the first
step as a view in the database so
instead of using CTE each time we're
going to take this script and put it in
the database so we have now a central
logic that is stored in the database
where everyone can use it so we have
this query this logic only once and
everyone can benefit from it so now the
financial analyst instead of going
directly to the physical tables they can
go to the view so that means she needs
only to write one script the rank
scripts same thing goes for the budget
analyst he has only to write the query
for the Max and Min and as well for the
risk analyst you just need to compare
the data so as you can see all those
queries are reduced and they can only
focus on the analyzes so this is exactly
the magic of views in data analytics
this logic this knowledge can be
centralized in the database and this is
way faster and better than having this
logic written each time someone want to
do any analyses so this is why we need
views in data
projects so now if you compare views
with CTE the CTE are used in order to
reduce their redundancy within one
single query so it improves the
reusability within one query where in
the other hand in the views we are
reducing the redundancies from multiple
queries so we are reducing the
complexity of the whole project so the
views are improving the reusability in
multiple queries now think about it like
this we use views in order to persist a
logic in the database so the logic is so
important that we want to persist it in
the database it's like in the tables we
persist data but with the views we are
persisting logic but in the other hand
in the CTE the logic is not persisted it
is temporary and going to be calculated
only on the Fly within the scope of one
query so this logic is important only in
this scenario and it is not important
for any other queries that's why it
makes no sense to persist it using the
views so you have to decide is this
logic is very important then take it
away from the CTE and put it in the view
but if you think you know what this
logic is not really important and only
important in this one query then stay
with the CTE because creating views
always needs some extra steps in order
to maintain the view you have to create
the view you have to drop the view if
you don't need it but the CTE There is
almost no maintenance for it the
database going to do automatically the
clean up once the query is done so there
is no extra activity to drop a CTE or
something that's why CTE is easier to
use than views so those are the big
difference between the views and
CTE okay so now let's check quickly the
syntax of a view so now we have a query
like select from where so this is a
query a symol select statements but now
in order to create a view an object in
database we have to go and use a ddl
command create so we're going to say
create view cuz we want to create a view
then the name of the view and then it's
like the CTE we say as and then double
parenthesis so as you can see is very
simple and we call this a ddl command
where we are telling the database go and
create a view and the logic of the view
comes from this query so it's very
simple this is how you can create views
in database okay so now let's have the
following task and it says find the
running total of sales for each month
I'm going to start this task by solving
it using the CTE so first I'm going to
go and do few aggregations on the top of
the month so let's go and select so now
what do we need we need the order dates
but we need it as a month I'm going to
go and use the date trunet like this and
say okay I would like to have the date
as the grity of month so let's go and
call it order month and now after that
we're going to do a few aggregations
like for example let's go and get the
sum of sales and we're going to call it
total sales and that's it for the start
so now let's go and call it from the
table sales orders and group by and we
are grouping a by by the month so
something like this let's go and execute
it and now for this we get for each
month the total sales and now the next
step that we have to go and calculate
the running total for the sales this is
of course not the running total so that
means either we can go and use
subqueries so this means this is our
first step and we need a second step so
either use queries or CTE I will go with
the CTE over here so I'm going to say
with CTE and
monthly
summary and we're going to Define it
like this and now what we're going to do
we're going to go and Define the main
query so the main query going to be
simple so select and let's go and get
the order month and now we have to build
the running total so we're going to go
and use the window function so sum total
sales and then we're going to say over
we don't have to partition the data we
will just sort it
by the order
month and we can leave it ascending so
this is the running
total and we have to go and select of
course our CTE from here so let's go and
execute it and with that we are getting
running total of course we can go and
add the total sales in the output in
order to understand the results so here
in the output we are just building a
cumulative sales so for this scope
everything is fine we are using the CTE
but now imagine that this logic is
important for multiple queries so it's
really nice to have such a report where
we are aggregating the data at the level
of the month and this could be used from
different users and different queries so
now we say how about to put this logic
in one view so that everyone can access
it and we don't have to repeat the same
aggregations over and over and now
before we put it in view someone comes
and say how about to add one more
aggregation so that not only the total
sales we can ow so now before we put it
as view maybe some other user says you
know what we would like to have one more
aggregation not only the total sales
let's make the scope little bit bigger
so that everyone can benefit so for
example we can go over here and say you
know what let's go and add the total
number of orders so we can go over here
and say count and let's get the order ID
and say this is the total orders or
maybe some other says let's get the
quantities as well so we can go and
summarize the quantity like this and we
call it total quantities
so with that we are like doing a lot of
aggregations on the month level let's go
and execute only the CTE so now we have
really nice report that is based on the
months and can be used from many
different queries so now what we're
going to do we're going to take this and
put it in a view let's go and select
only this logic and create a new query
and now what we're going to do we're
going to put our query here and we have
to create now the ddl in order to create
a view so it's going to be like this
create view let's give it the name maybe
starts with the V underscore and this
can be the monthly summary so this is
the name of the view and us then we put
everything in parenthesis it's like you
are building a CTE so we have here our
logic and here is our ddl query in order
to create the view so now let's go and
execute it now as you can see in the
output it says only that the command is
completed because this is not a select
query this is a ddl command so the SQL
get tell you okay either I created it
successfully or not so now the question
is where do I find now my view well if
you go to the object Explorer you can
see over here underneath our database
sales DB we have here something called
tables where we are used to query those
tables but beneath it we have as well
our views so if you check the views and
expand it now we are not seeing a view
because we just created The View here so
go over here and refresh and once you do
that you will see the newly created view
so this is the one that we just created
so now what we can do we can go and
create a new query and let's go and just
query The View so select star from so V
monthly summary let's go and excuse it
and now as you can see we are getting
now the result of the view and I'm
accessing now this logic from completely
external query so now I can think about
the view as any other table that we have
in the database and again the big
differences between the views and the
tables the tables has data has actual
data and everything there is persisted
but the view is just an abstraction for
me and behind it there is like a query
that goes to the table and query the
tables in order to present the results
but for me I don't care about all those
details I can go immediately to the
query over here and start querying so
now in order to create the total running
sales I don't have to create the CTE and
subqueries I just go and get for example
our main
query let's go back over here so now
instead of using the CTE I can go
directly and access the view so as you
can see now my query is very simple I'm
doing immediately the step two without
having to prepare the data first so if I
go and execute it I will get exact
results and now if you compare the query
on top of the view like this with the
CTE query you can see that the CTE has
more steps and it is like little bit
more complicated ated than the query on
top of the view and this is exactly the
benefit of the view we reduce the
complexity and it is very easy to
consume from the point of view of users
so this is how you can put your logic in
central place using views and with that
we have learned how we create a view now
one more thing about the schemas if you
check our tables over here they have all
one schema so we have sales. customers
sales. employees orders and so on our
new view has the scheme of DB o if you
create any object whether it's table or
View and you don't specify a schema in a
default schema called dbo and now let's
go back to our ddl scripts so as you can
see over here we didn't specify any
schema we just said okay this is the
view name and now in order to put our
view in the correct schema we don't want
it to be in the default you have to go
and specify the schema name in the ddl
and now in order to do that we go to the
name of the view and we write the schema
name and then separated with is a DOT so
the first one is the schema name and the
second one is the view name so now let's
go and execute it now if you check over
here you don't see anything new but if
you're refresh you will find another
view in the correct schema so we have
sales. V monly summary and this is
exactly what we want so this is how you
can assign a view or even a table to the
correct schema if you don't want to use
the default one theb all right so now
the next of that you say you know what I
would like to clean up I don't need
those two views in my database so how to
delete a view we can go and use the
command drop it is very simple if you go
and create a new query and you say drop
and then you say what you want to drop
you want to drop a view and then you
have to specify the name and schema of
the view but now since it is the default
schema DBU I don't have to write it down
so we can start immediately with the
view name so V
monthly summary so that's it it's very
simple so now we go and execute it it
says it's completed but as you can see
nothing is changed we go and refresh and
now we can see that the database did
remove the view with the schema DBU so
it's very simple this is how you can
drop a view in SQL okay so now to the
next step let's go back to our ddl of
creating the view sales monthly summary
and now you say you know what I would
like to change the logic inside the view
so how we can update this content how I
can update my query if you say let's go
and for example delete this column I
need only three columns so and you go
execute it the database say I cannot do
it for you because we have already such
a view so SQL will not go and replace
stuff isq going to say no we have the
same name and I cannot do anything for
it so how we can update the view well in
other databases like postris for example
it's very simple you can go over here
and say create or replace view so it's
like you are telling the database create
this view or if it already exists then
replace place it and you will not get
error in the boss Crest but in the SQL
Server it is little bit more complicated
we don't have these commands so here you
have two ways either you go over here
and say you know what let's first drop
the view so you go with the same name
over
here and then what you're going to do
you're going to go and mark the drop
view so if you execute it like this the
view going to be dropped and then we
recreate the view like this so what we
have done we destroy the view and then
we recreate it using the new logic or
you say you know what I would like to
have everything in one goal like I don't
want to do it in two steps I would like
to have everything in one command and
for that you have to use in SQL Server
the tsql the transact SQL it is like an
extension for SQL only in SQL Server
well it's like programming where you can
go and add variables or you can all go
and add checks we will not do a deep
dive in this language but I would like
to show you how to do it for the views
so just follow me with that I'm going to
go and replace the whole thing and then
we can say if and now we are checking
the system catalog if the object ID and
now we go and specify the view name so
let's go and copy the whole thing with
the schema as well and then we're going
to say for SQL this is a view so if this
object exist so we are saying is not
null so that means it exist in the
catalog then what SQL should do should
drop this view so we're going to say
drop View and it's like we have D first
and then semicolon and then we say for
SQL go and with that we are saying for
SQL that tsql is done so the logic is
done and after that we have the ddl for
our view so again what we are doing we
are checking before creating the view
whether the view exist if it exist then
we are telling SQL go and drop it and if
it doesn't exist that means we haven't
created this view yet it is completely
brand new view then this step going to
be skipped so there is nothing to drop
so now if you go and execute the whole
thing it will work and of course if you
go and refresh over here you still see
the view so SQL did destroy the table
first and then recreate it so if you
execute it again so this is how you
replace your logic inter view in SQL
server and with that we have learned all
possible scenarios how to create a view
how to drop a view and how to update the
logic of a
view now back to our data base
architecture and let's understand how
the database executes views so now let's
say that the data engineer is creating
view called top end so the query can to
be sent to the database engine and once
the database engine understand this is a
view this is not a table so now the
database engine going to go to the disk
storage and to the catalog and it will
stores not only the metadata about the
view also the SQL that is responsible
for the view so it's going to take the
SQL statements that you have to find in
the create View and place it as well in
the catalog so if you compare to the
tables we have in the tables only
metadata but in the views we have both
the metadata and as well the query of
the view and as well you can see that
the database engine will not create a
table in the user's data so there is
nowhere data stored inside the dis or
the cach so the actual data the physical
data will not be stored anywhere we are
storing only metadata and the query
inside the system catalog so now we tell
our data analyst okay we have a new view
and the data analyst can go and write a
query in order to retrieve the data from
The View so he going to say and say
select from The View and execute it the
database engine going to take it and
understand okay now we are talking about
view so the database first has to
retrieve not the data can retrieve the
query from the catalog in order to
understand what do we have now to
execute then the database going to
execute the query of the view first and
the data for this query comes from a
physical table called orders so now the
database engine is querying the orders
to retrieve the data so that's we have a
data for the end user and then it's
going to be executed and the result
going to be sent back to the data
analyst so as you can see there is like
two queries the SQL engine first has to
execute the query from The View and only
after that the database engine can
execute the query that comes from the
user so actually the data comes always
from a physical table but we are not
providing the data analyst an access to
the table we are just providing an
access to the view so this can happen
each time an end user selecting data
from The View always the database engine
going to grab the query from the catalog
executed first in order to get the data
and then execute what the end user wants
and now if the data engineer says no
let's go and drop the view so she writes
a query in order to drop the view and
the database engine going to go to the
system catalog and delete both the
metadata and the query so as as you can
see if you are dropping a view you are
not losing the actual data so there will
be no user data lost at all so don't
worry about it what you are losing is
only the query and the metadata about
your view it's only if you drop a
physical table like the orders you will
lose your data so droing views is not
that bad like dropping a database table
so this is how the database works with
the views behind the
scenes now moving on to this second
scenario to the next use case of using
views in projects is that we use views
in order to hide complexity and to
improve abstraction in many scenarios we
work with a very large and complex
databases and we can use views in order
to reduce the complexity and make things
easier for the users so let's understand
what this means now I'm going to explain
for you a scenario that happens almost
in each project like if you get an
access to a database where you want to
do analyzes you will be in scenario and
this can happen a lot where you're going
to find a large database where the
tables are very complex to understand
they have a lot of columns they have
like Technical and cryptical names and
how tables are connected to each others
and relationship between them it's
almost impossible to understand then you
have to be deeply involved with the data
models with documentations and with
experts until you understand how to
query this database so if you are not
the developer and From enduser
perspective it's going to be nightmare
where you are trying trying to do
multiple joints in order to make simple
analyzis and of course from the database
perspective this data model is good
enough for one application but if you
are opening your database for multiple
data analysis projects this can be a
nightmare because you have to go and
explain for each user how to create the
data so what we usually do instead of
giving a direct access to such Technical
and hard to understand data model we go
as developers creating multiple views
since we are the expert of the data
model and these new views going to be an
abstraction of the complexity that I
have in my database and we have to make
sure that those views are providing
objects that are friendly so they have
like a full English name that Mak sense
and as well the columns are friendly and
we try to not offer a lot of views so
the user don't have to do all the joins
so we provide like few views that are
friendly and has a lot of informations
that the users needs for the analyzers
so with that the users can to have an
access to something more friendly and
easy to consume and then they can write
simple queries in order to do analyzis
on top of these friendly views and this
is what we can give a name like we are
providing a data product from my complex
physical database so here again how
important are the views to provide an
abstraction and easy to consume objects
for the users and with that I can hide
all my complexity and the script of the
view going to be developed from the
experts and only once so that the users
don't have to understand or to write
these complex SQL joins and with that
you can make your data projects way
easier than before so this is another
important use case for the views where
we can use it in order to provide
abstraction and as well easy and
friendly objects for the end users okay
so now let's have the following task and
it says provide view that combines
details from orders products customers
and employees so now instead of having
all those tables from our database we
have to provide one combined view that
has everything well almost everything so
now let's see how we can create such a
view so let's start first by the table
orders I'm going to go and
select first star from sales orders and
let's go and executed this is the
central table that connects everything
you can see here we have the order ID
product ID sales customers and so on so
it is a great start point so now we're
going to go and be picky about the
columns I would not show all the columns
but I would say let's go and show for
example the order ID this is essential
it's nice to have a unique identifier
now the product ID I will not show it
but I will just list it over here the
same for the customer ID salesperson ID
those stuff I would like to replace
later so I will just make it as comment
so I don't forget about it because it
makes no sense to show the product ID
and customer IDs and so on we would like
to show the details about each object
because instead of having the product ID
I would like to show for example the
product name itself and some other
informations from the table products and
with that we are reducing the complexity
so now what else we can get from the
table orders we can go and get the order
date I will put it here and maybe we can
go and get stuff like sales and
quantity so like this of course we can
go and put all the columns but for now I
will go with those informations now it's
important since we're going to have a
lot of tables let's go and make sure we
are using alas so I'm going to have the
O for each of those columns all right
fine so now we have four details from
the table orders now what is next we
have the product ID so let's go and get
the informations from the products what
we're going to do we're going to use a
lift join just to make sure to not miss
any order if you go with the inner join
you might Miss some orders so I will not
do that so let's join it with the
products like this
and so now we have to go and join the
tables so we going to use the keys
product ID equal the order product ID
all right so now the question is which
informations we want to show for the
users let's go to the table orders so we
have the product and category and the
price I would say let's go and get the
product and category that's enough so
now instead of the ID I'm going to have
it like this so it's going to be the
product and the
category now let's go and test it I'm
going to execute it now as you can see
we don't have a product ID we have the
product name which is more friendly so
we have now those two columns from the
orders and those two from the products
and the last two as well from the orders
so it looks really nice and friendly and
with that the user don't need extra
table called products we have everything
in one now let's go and do the same for
the customers so let's go
and do the same thing so let join sales
customers see and as well join them
using the key customer ID equal to the
customer ID now we have to go and grab a
few columns from the customers let's go
and check so we have the first name last
name and Country and score I would say I
would go with the names and the
countries but instead of having first
name and last name I'm going to put
everything in one so we have to go and
con cut
the informations so we're going to get
the first
name then plus then empty between the
first name and the last name and then
the last name like
this now we will not call it a name
we're going to go and call it the
customer name because later we're going
to have as well an employee name all
right so next we want to get the country
and we have to say this is the country
from the customers so we're going to
call it customer country and that's it
let's go and execute it now we can see
we have again our orders products and
now we have the informations from the
customer but here you have we is show
that we have some nulls and that's
because there is no last name so what
we're going to do we're going to go and
handle the nulls for the last name and
as well the first name so we're going to
use the
Calis if the last name is null then make
an empty string and the same thing for
the first name so first name all right
so now let's go and execute it so with
that we are getting as well the first
name if the last name is missing or if
the first name is missing we can get the
last name so looks good so it looks good
with that we have the customers details
the last thing we have to go and get the
employees so the employee here is called
salesperson ID which we can connect it
directly to the table employees so if
you go to the employees over here which
columns do we need we have the first
name last name department and so on I
would say let's go get the names and the
departments so first let's go and join
it so lift join sales
employees and we're going to join it
using the employee ID and we're going to
join it with the sales person ID that
comes from the order table so now
instead of the person ID we're going to
have as well the same thing so I will
just go and copy paste this so instead
of the LC we're going to have e and as
well e over here and we're going to call
it sales
name and as well what we going to have
we're going to have the department so
department and that's it let's go and
excuse it so now we have a lot of
informations in our view so we have the
first columns from the orders then from
the products and here we have from
customers and those two from the
employees and the last two again from
the orders so with that we have combined
now all the relevant informations from
multiple tables in our database in only
one view this reason result is relative
big but still we have all the
informations in one and it is more
friendly for the users in order to
consume our data instead of going and
joining like all those four tables
together so now the next step we're
going to put the result of this query in
a view in our database so that our end
users can start consuming it so how
we're going to do it this is our
combined query and now we're going to
write the ddl for it so create View and
now we're going to give it the name
order the details and then as and we're
going to put the whole thing in two
parentheses so at the start and at the
end and of course don't forget the
schema so our schema is sales sales dots
then we have the view name just in order
to have it in the correct schema and not
in dbo so everything is ready let's go
and excuse it so now let's go and check
our databas if you go and refresh you
will find our second view order details
so now let's go and distance we're going
to say select star from sales we order
details let's go and execute it and with
that we are getting now a combined view
that are showing all important
informations from the database so this
is what the users can see and with that
the users don't care about how many
tables do we have in the tables and how
to join all those tables we have only
one View and we can start working on it
this is a very common use case for the
views okay and moving on to the next
scenario to the next use case we use SQL
views in order to implement security and
to protect our data in the database in
many scenarios we have sensitive
informations in our data and we cannot
go and share it with everyone so one of
the best practices is to create views in
order to protect your data before
sharing it with the users so let's
understand what this means so now let's
understand first the scenario without
views only tables so now let's say that
you have the table orders four columns
and three rows and then you have like
for example a manager that has an access
directly to the database and start
writing some queries in order to
retrieve data but in your project you
have multiple people that has an access
to your datab base like for example a
data analyst and as well she is writing
a script in order to retrieve data from
the orders and as well you have maybe a
students that has an access to your
database and quering the data like any
other rule like a manager and data
analyst so as you can see you have now
different rules in your project and all
of them having the same rights by
accessing directly your table so a
manager or data analyst or student they
are seeing the whole table all rows and
all columns and of course in the real
projects this is a big problem sometimes
the data are sensitive and you cannot
give an access for everyone and of
course if you're are using only tables
this going to be a nightmare because you
can go and create multiple tables but
it's going to be really hard to make all
those tables in but instead of that we
have views so what you can do you can go
and remove all accesses to the physical
table but instead you can go and create
multiple views for each role for example
you can go and create a view called
orders managers and maybe you can give
all the data and all the columns because
the managers are allowed to see let's
say sensitive data but still it's nice
to create a view maybe you change your
mind later and you go and remove
something now let's say that for the
data analyst you want to offer all the
data but there is only one column that
is very sensitive so what you can do you
can go and create another view called
orders analyst so in the view only three
columns are available a b c and then you
give access to all data analyst and with
that you have protected this sensitive
information so we call this column level
security and now we come to our poor
students and here we create another view
where we are not only protecting the
column D but also we are protecting few
rows like for example the row number
three because we want to offer only few
informations to the students so we are
protecting the columns and as well the
rows and for that we can create another
dedicated view called for example order
students and we can offer it to the
students and with that we are doing
column level security and as well roow
level security so we are offering
multiple views very easily without
having to worry how to load the data
from one table to another so creating
those views are really easy and provide
us a perfect tool in order order to
manage the security of our data so this
is one very common use case of using
views in data projects all right so now
let's have the following task and it
says provide a view for EU sales team
that combines details from all tables
and excludes data related to the USA so
the first part of the task is similar to
what we have already done but we cannot
offer all data for the user so this time
we are providing a view that is
specifically created for a team the
sales team so the first part we have
already done it where we are combining
all details in one view but the problem
with the view that we have created that
it shows all data but now the
requirement change we cannot show all
data we have to go and exclude the USA
Data from our details so let's see how
we can do that it's very simple we're
going to go and grab the same query we
will not repeat that so we have as well
here joining tables and prepare
everything but instead of showing all
data what we're going to do we're going
to go and filter the data based on the
custom customer country so it's very
simple at the end we will have a we
Clause where the C
country is not equal to
USA so we have now a filter let's go and
execute it and with that as you can see
in the output we are getting the orders
that are not from USA and with that we
are protecting the data of the USA and
the EU sales teams can access only their
data so it looks nice and protected and
with that we are doing now Ro level
security that means we are hiding now
all the orders all the rowes that are
not allowed to be seen and consumed from
this group of users so now what is the
next step it is very simple we're going
to go and put everything in one view so
with that we have the query ready and we
can go and create the new view so we're
going to call it create view then we
need a schema and the name going to be
almost the same so order details but EU
and then we have to have us and
parenthesis like this so everything is
ready let's go and executed and now we
can go and refresh in order to see our
new view if you still don't see it you
can go to the Views over here and
refresh as well to the folder so with
that I can see we have our new view now
of course the next step we go and test
it so let's create a new query select
star
from sales and V order details EU so
that's the tested and with that as you
can see we are getting the combined view
only for the data that is relevant for
the EU sales team so I'm not seeing here
any USA records so with that we are
providing view that protects few rows
like the orders from USA so as you can
see views are really great in order to
provide security to our data whether we
are protecting the columns or the rows
for example in our view we can say not
only I want to remove the USA orders but
let's say the department information is
sensitive information and I would like
to hide it from The View so you can just
simply remove it from the select and
with that you are doing column level
security so now I have two options that
I can provide to the users the first
option doesn't have any like Ro level
security it is the first view the order
details we don't have there any filters
so it's going to show all the orders so
here we give access only to people that
are allowed to see all data and we have
another option the details with the EU
it doesn't show all data it shows only a
subset that is relevant for the EU team
so now it's really easy to control the
security of my data using the views and
this is very important use case for the
views okay so moving on to the next use
case for the views we can use it in
order to have more Dynamic and
flexibility in our projects so let's
understand what this means if you have a
table and you have multiple users
accessing this table now what can happen
you might change your mind about the
design and the data model of your
database where you can say you know what
instead of having one table I'm going to
go and split it into two tables or maybe
another decision you say you know what
I'm going to go and rename a table or in
another day you decide you know what
let's go and rename few columns or maybe
add a column remove columns so you are
doing changes to your physical data
model and you are changing stuff in the
tables you know what going to happen all
those users that are accessing the
tables going to scream because all of
them having a complex SQL queries and
your small changes at the tables are
breaking everything in their queries and
what this means this means escalations
and you don't have anymore the freedom
to change anything in your database
without talking before to 100 people
before doing any change so we don't do
that instead of that we use views so
what going to happen you create a view
and you tell the users okay take this
View and consume it and leave me alone
and now you have again your freedom to
do any changes you want so you go to
your tables and do splitting renaming
and change everything you want as long
as you are updating the query between
the table and the view to make sure that
the users are not noticing any change so
for example if you go and split the
table into two tables then you have to
put in the view a join or Union in order
to reconstruct the same structure that
the users are used to and if you would
like to rename something in your
database like instead of ID you are now
calling it a key all what you have to do
now is to go to the query of the view
and rename it back from a key to an ID
so no one going to notice that you are
doing changes to the physical tables so
using views and offering it to users is
a game changer for you because giving
the users views can it gives you more
freedom Dynamic and flexibility to
change anything in your data model and
the tables without getting any headache
so this is amazing use case for the
views okay moving on we have a lot of
use cases for the views they are just
amazing so the next one is we can use
views in order to introduce a second
version of my data model in another
language so we could offer multiple
languages to the users let's understand
what this means so now we have the
following scenario we have again our
table orders where the data is persisted
and everything in English and of course
what happens sometimes you have like
international team that are accessing
your data so you have team in USA and
maybe you have team from Germany that as
well are end users that want to access
the data of course it depend on the
number of users that are using your
database but if you have a lot of users
that come from Germany and as well from
India it might make sense that you go
and translate your data and the table
structure into another language so for
example instead of giving access to the
table orders we can create another view
called bong that's the order in German
but not only you are giving a new name
for the object you could go as well and
rename all the columns inside the view
then the German users going to access
the German View and it's going to be for
them easier to understand the content of
your data phase the same thing for the
Indian team and for the Indian users you
can go and provide a view in Hindi I'm
not sure whether I'm pronouncing that
word correct but this is the first word
that I said in Hindi I don't promise
that I'm going to learn the Hindi
language because it's enough to learn
Germany so I'm trying as well to write
this word adish I hope it is correct and
to be honest it is really interesting
how you write this word in Hindi so now
back to the toic as you can see now we
are using like the views in order to
provide a translation for our database
by just giving a new name for the views
and as well for the columns so this is
another nice use case that I usually use
as well in my projects in order to
provide multi languages for the data
model that I have and I can do that with
the power of views
now we come to my favorite use case for
the views and that I personally
recommend in each project is that we can
use views as a virtual data Mars in a
data warehouse so now why this is my
favorite because I'm specialist in data
warehouses and data leagues and this
topic is very important decision in each
project like this so let's understand
what this means so now a classical data
warehouse architecture based on the
approach of N1 it's going to look like
this we have multiple Source systems
where our data are spread it and now we
would like to go and extract all of our
data from these multiple sources and put
it in one big database called Data
Warehouse and there will be a lot of
operations on this Central database like
the data going to be first cleaned and
then maybe integrated together and maybe
we are building there some historical
data so we're going to be doing multiple
steps in order to prepare the data for
complex reporting and analyzes and what
we usually do in the data warehouse we
going to store all those informations as
if physical table now once we have built
the data warehouse what's going to
happen we're going to have multiple use
cases that would like to access the data
warehouse in order maybe to do some
different reporting now it's going to be
very complex if we connect immediately
like a reporting engine like powerbi
directly to the data warehouse but
instead of this we try to split the data
warehouse into multiple subsets like we
can split it after topic or domain or
departments and we call those subsets as
data Mars so a data Mart is always
specific for a use case that's focus on
one topic like for example we could have
a dedicated Mart for the sales and
another data Mark which is dedicated
only for finance topics but both of them
comes from our data warehouse then the
last layer going to be like for example
the reporting and dashboarding maybe you
have something like powerbi where you
are creating a dashboard one data M like
the sales or and as well maybe few stuff
from other Marts but now the big
question here in the data Mart is how
should I store the data should I store
the data using tables or should I use
views and now the best practice says if
you are building data Mars then use
views and we call this virtual data Mars
and there are many reasons why using
views at a data Mar it's way better than
using tables like for example it is more
Dynamic and quicker to change them
because usually at the data M you are
building a lot of business Logics and
you want to have some flexibility and
speed and the maintenance efforts is
very simplified no need to build any
etls or data loads from the data
warehouse to the data Mars and this
makes the data warehouse as a real
single point of Truth for your data and
once you start copying data from one
layer to another layer it's going to be
really hard to maintain and chaotic and
you have to have really restrict
monitoring and data quality so that's
why using views you're going to always
reflect the status of the data warehouse
and this can to help you of course with
the data consistency which is a critical
point in each data house project so
there are many reasons why we build
virtual dataart and we go with the views
in this layer so as you can see how the
views are playing a very important role
in building a data warehouse so this is
another amazing and very important use
case of using views in your data
projects all right friends so now let's
have a quick recap about views so we
have learned that views are a virtual
table that is based on the result of a
query without actually storing any data
in the database so we use views in order
to persist a complex SQL logic and query
in the database and we have learned that
in some scenarios views are better than
CTE because it improves the reusability
and reduce the complexity in multiple
queries which reduce the complexity of
the whole project where the CTE only
improves their usability in one query
and we have learned that as well the
views in some scenarios are better than
tables we have learned that they are
very flexible and easier to maintain
since they don't store any data and it's
really fast and easy to change stuff in
the view compared to the tables but as
well we have learned that the tables are
faster than views now they are like
endless use cases for the views but from
my experience in projects I have chose
for you the best use cases for the views
the first use case is if we find like a
common repeated logic in SQL queries we
can go and store this logic in view in
the database so that the users don't
have to keep repeating the logic over
and over so we use views in order to
have a Central Business logic another
use case is to hide the complexity of
your physical data model and to offer
for the users an high abstracted layer
so you provide for the users something
very friendly and you hide all that
complex technical data model that you
have in the database because not
everyone is expert with your data model
when more use case we can use views in
order to implement security and to
protect our sensitive data in the
database so we can offer multiple views
in order to protect columns or rows in a
table another use case we have learned
that we can use views in order to have
more Dynamic and flexibility for your
database where we offer the users a
stable View and then you have the
freedom to change stuff at your physical
data model without affecting all users
and another nice use case for the views
we can offer multiple languages from our
data model and the last use case we have
learned how views play an important role
in a data warehouse system so views are
amazing all right so with that we have
covered everything about the views and
how to use them in your SK projects now
in the next chapter we're going to learn
how to use tables instead of views in
your projects if you like this video and
you want me to create more content like
this I'm going to really appreciate it
if you support the channel by
subscribing liking sharing commenting
all those stuff going to help the
Channel with the YouTube algorithm and
as well my content going to reach the
others so thank you so much for watching
and I will see you in the next tutorial
bye